---
title: "GenDT: Mobile Network Drive Testing Made Efficient with Generative Modeling"
category: Research Paper
permalink: /articles/2022-12-Conext
excerpt: "Many machine learning projects for new application areas involve teams of humans who label data for a particular purpose, from hiring crowdworkers to the paper’s authors labeling the data themselves. In this paper, we investigate to what extent a sample of machine learning application papers in social computing -- specifically papers from ArXiv and traditional publications performing an ML classification task on Twitter data -- give specific details about whether best practices in human annotation were followed. "
venue: "ACM CoNEXT'24 - Best Paper Shortlist"
date: 2022-12-09
---

[Download the paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3555050.3569124)

Abstract: Drive testing continues to play a key role in mobile network optimization for operators but its high cost is a big concern. Alternative approaches like virtual drive testing (VDT) target device testing in the lab whereas MDT or crowdsourcing based approaches are limited by the incentives users have to participate and contribute measurements. With the aim of augmenting drive testing and significantly reducing its cost, we propose GenDT, a novel deep generative model that synthesizes high-fidelity time series of key radio network key performance indicators (KPIs). The training of GenDT relies on a relatively small amount of real-world measurement data along with corresponding and easily accessible network and environment context data. Through this, GenDT learns the relationship between context and radio network KPIs as they vary over time, and therefore trained GenDT model can subsequently be relied on to generate time series for different KPIs for new drive test routes (trajectories) without having to collect field measurements. GenDT represents an initial attempt at enabling efficient drive testing via generative modeling. Evaluations with real-world mobile network drive testing measurement datasets from two countries demonstrate that GenDT can synthesize significantly more dependable data than a range of baselines. We further show that GenDT has the potential to significantly reduce the drive testing related measurement effort, and that GenDT-generated data yields similar results to that with real data in the context of two downstream use cases - QoE prediction and handover analysis.
